Runas Explained

Have you ever found AD credentials but nowhere to log in with them? Runas may be the answer you've been looking for!

In security assessments, you will often have network access and have just discovered AD credentials but have no means or privileges to create a new domain-joined machine. So we need the ability to use those credentials on a Windows machine we control.

If we have the AD credentials in the format of <username>:<password>, we can use Runas, a legitimate Windows binary, to inject the credentials into memory. The usual Runas command would look something like this:

runas.exe /netonly /user:<domain>\<username> cmd.exe

Let's look at the parameters:

    /netonly - Since we are not domain-joined, we want to load the credentials for network authentication but not authenticate against a domain controller. So commands executed locally on the computer will run in the context of your standard Windows account, but any network connections will occur using the account specified here.
    /user - Here, we provide the details of the domain and the username. It is always a safe bet to use the Fully Qualified Domain Name (FQDN) instead of just the NetBIOS name of the domain since this will help with resolution.
    cmd.exe - This is the program we want to execute once the credentials are injected. This can be changed to anything, but the safest bet is cmd.exe since you can then use that to launch whatever you want, with the credentials injected.

Once you run this command, you will be prompted to supply a password. Note that since we added the /netonly parameter, the credentials will not be verified directly by a domain controller so that it will accept any password. We still need to confirm that the network credentials are loaded successfully and correctly.

Note: If you use your own Windows machine, you should make sure that you run your first Command Prompt as Administrator. This will inject an Administrator token into CMD. If you run tools that require local Administrative privileges from your Runas spawned CMD, the token will already be available. This does not give you administrative privileges on the network, but will ensure that any local commands you execute, will execute with administrative privileges.